# Docker

## What is docker ?

Docker is an open platform for developing, shipping, and running applications. Docker enables you to separate your applications from your infrastructure so you can deliver software quickly.

With Docker, you can manage your infrastructure in the same ways you manage your applications. By taking advantage of Docker’s methodologies for shipping, testing, and deploying code quickly, you can significantly reduce the delay between writing code and running it in production.

## Advantages of docker

- Package and run an application in a loosely isolated environment called a container
- Containers are lightweight because they don’t need the extra load of a hypervisor, but run directly within the host machine’s kernel
- Isolation and security allow you to run many containers simultaneously on a given host
- Can run Docker containers within host machines that are actually virtual machines
- Easy and rapid app deployment to any cloud
- Scale app by multiplying the number of containers

## Usefull command

Show all running containers

```bash
docker ps
```

Show all containers

```bash
docker ps -a
```

Show all images

```bash
docker image ls
```

Remove image

```bash
docker image rm IMAGE_NAME
```

Run a docker container from an image

- -d -> Dispatch, run in background
- -p -> Publish, map port 80 in the container to port 8080 on the docker host

```bash
docker run -d -p 8080:80 IMAGE:TAG
```

Build a docker image from a Dockerfile

- -t, Name and optionally a tag in the ‘name:tag’ format

```bash
docker build -t NAME:TAG .
```

Login to the interactive shell of a container

```bash
docker exec -it <container_id_or_name> bash
```

## What is a Dockerfile ?

Docker can build images automatically by reading the instructions from a Dockerfile. A Dockerfile is a text document that contains all the commands a user could call on the command line to assemble an image. Using `docker build` users can create an automated build that executes several command-line instructions in succession.

## Simple Java Dockerfile

```docker
FROM openjdk:15
ARG JAR_FILE=target/*.jar
COPY ${JAR_FILE} app.jar
ENTRYPOINT ["java","-jar","/app.jar"]
```

## Docker Volume


Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers. While bind mounts are dependent on the directory structure and OS of the host machine, volumes are completely managed by Docker. Volumes have several advantages over bind mounts:

- Volumes are easier to back up or migrate than bind mounts.
- You can manage volumes using Docker CLI commands or the Docker API.
- Volumes work on both Linux and Windows containers.
- Volumes can be more safely shared among multiple containers.
- Volume drivers let you store volumes on remote hosts or cloud providers, to encrypt the contents of volumes, or to add other functionality.
- New volumes can have their content pre-populated by a container.
- Volumes on Docker Desktop have much higher performance than bind mounts from Mac and Windows hosts.

## Volume usefull command

Create volume

```bash
docker volume create VOLUME_NAME
```

Show all volume

```bash
docker volume ls
```

Delete volume

```bash
docker volume rm VOLUME_NAME
```

Inspect volume

```bash
docker volume inspect VOLUME_NAME
```
